Flask
=====

Installation
------------

If you haven't already, install raven with its explicit Flask dependencies::

    pip install raven[flask]

Setup
-----

The first thing you'll need to do is to initialize Raven under your application::

    from raven.contrib.flask import Sentry
    sentry = Sentry(app, dsn='___DSN___')

If you don't specify the ``dsn`` value, we will attempt to read it from
your environment under the ``SENTRY_DSN`` key.

Extended Setup
--------------

You can optionally configure logging too:

.. sourcecode:: python

    import logging
    from raven.contrib.flask import Sentry
    sentry = Sentry(app, logging=True, level=logging.ERROR, \
                    logging_exclusions=("logger1", "logger2", ...))

Building applications on the fly? You can use Raven's ``init_app`` hook:

.. sourcecode:: python

    sentry = Sentry(dsn='http://public_key:secret_key@example.com/1')

    def create_app():
        app = Flask(__name__)
        sentry.init_app(app)
        return app

You can pass parameters in the ``init_app`` hook:

.. sourcecode:: python

    sentry = Sentry()

    def create_app():
        app = Flask(__name__)
        sentry.init_app(app, dsn='___DSN___', logging=True,
                        level=logging.ERROR,
                        logging_exclusions=("logger1", "logger2", ...))
        return app

Settings
--------

Additional settings for the client can be configured using
``SENTRY_CONFIG`` in your application's configuration:

.. sourcecode:: python

    class MyConfig(object):
        SENTRY_CONFIG = {
            'dsn': '___DSN___',
            'include_paths': ['myproject'],
            'release': raven.fetch_git_sha(os.path.dirname(__file__)),
        }

If `Flask-Login <https://pypi.python.org/pypi/Flask-Login/>`_ is used by
your application (including `Flask-Security
<https://pypi.python.org/pypi/Flask-Security/>`_), user information will
be captured when an exception or message is captured.  By default, only
the ``id`` (current_user.get_id()), ``is_authenticated``, and
``is_anonymous`` is captured for the user.  If you would like additional
attributes on the ``current_user`` to be captured,  you can configure them
using ``SENTRY_USER_ATTRS``:

.. sourcecode:: python

    class MyConfig(object):
        SENTRY_USER_ATTRS = ['username', 'first_name', 'last_name', 'email']

``email`` will be captured as ``sentry.interfaces.User.email``, and any
additional attributes will be available under
``sentry.interfaces.User.data``

You can specify the types of exceptions that should not be reported by
Sentry client in your application by setting the ``ignore_exceptions``
configuration value:

.. sourcecode:: python

    class MyExceptionType(Exception):
        def __init__(self, message):
            super(MyExceptionType, self).__init__(message)

    app = Flask(__name__)
    app.config['SENTRY_CONFIG'] = {
        'ignore_exceptions': [MyExceptionType],
    }

Usage
-----

Once you've configured the Sentry application it will automatically
capture uncaught exceptions within Flask. If you want to send additional
events, a couple of shortcuts are provided on the Sentry Flask middleware
object.

Capture an arbitrary exception by calling ``captureException``:

.. sourcecode:: python

    try:
        1 / 0
    except ZeroDivisionError:
        sentry.captureException()

Log a generic message with ``captureMessage``:

.. sourcecode:: python

    sentry.captureMessage('hello, world!')

Getting The Last Event ID
-------------------------

If possible, the last Sentry event ID is stored in the request context
``g.sentry_event_id`` variable.  This allow to present the user an error
ID if have done a custom error 500 page.

.. sourcecode:: html+jinja

    <h2>Error 500</h2>
    {% if g.sentry_event_id %}
    <p>The error identifier is {{ g.sentry_event_id }}</p>
    {% endif %}

.. _python-flask-user-feedback:

User Feedback
-------------

To enable user feedback for crash reports just make sure you have a custom
`500` error handler and render out a HTML snippet for bringing up the
crash dialog:

.. sourcecode:: python

    from flask import Flask, g, render_template
    from raven.contrib.flask import Sentry

    app = Flask(__name__)
    sentry = Sentry(app, dsn='___DSN___')

    @app.errorhandler(500)
    def internal_server_error(error):
        return render_template('500.html',
            event_id=g.sentry_event_id,
            public_dsn=sentry.client.get_public_dsn()
        )

And in the error template (``500.html``) you can then do this:

.. sourcecode:: html+jinja

    <!-- Sentry JS SDK 2.1.+ required -->
    <script src="https://cdn.ravenjs.com/2.3.0/raven.min.js"></script>

    {% if event_id %}
      <script>
      Raven.showReportDialog({
        eventId: '{{ event_id }}',
        dsn: '{{ public_dsn }}'
      });
      </script>
    {% endif %}

That's it!

For more details on this feature, see the :doc:`User Feedback guide
<../../../learn/user-feedback>`.

Dealing With Proxies
--------------------

When your Flask application is behind a proxy such as nginx, Sentry will
use the remote address from the proxy, rather than from the actual
requesting computer.  By using ``ProxyFix`` from `werkzeug.contrib.fixers
<http://werkzeug.pocoo.org/docs/0.10/contrib/fixers/#werkzeug.contrib.fixers.ProxyFix>`_
the Flask ``.wsgi_app`` can be modified to send the actual ``REMOTE_ADDR``
along to Sentry. ::

    from werkzeug.contrib.fixers import ProxyFix
    app.wsgi_app = ProxyFix(app.wsgi_app)

This may also require `changes
<http://flask.pocoo.org/docs/0.10/deploying/wsgi-standalone/#proxy-setups>`_
to the proxy configuration to pass the right headers if it isn't doing so
already.
